[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: Let's just quickly
take a look at the code, and
then I will have an exercise for
you to do, code splitting yourself.
So, what we have now
are a couple of things.
We now have a CSS file for that.
SVG, we have kind of restructured
things in our app a little bit.
So now, on load,
we'll call this update to do, so
I moved most of the to do code
into the todo.js file, and
it also will add an event listener
on the tall graph button.
That listens to click, so
that it will toggle your graph on and off.
And then that toggle graph is new, whoops.
If we go to graph index, and
this is where I say, again,
that it's important to understand
how things are resolved.
With a comma JS, or
ES6 imports as well, at least,
the way that it's resolved with
Webpack is the same as comma JS.
So, it will resolve.
If you point to a directory, it will
resolve to the index JS of that directory,
or if it has a packaged JSON,
it will resolve to the main property
of that package JSON, what?
That's how actually you know
modules work most of the time.
But yeah, so here in this graph,
we have this rendered graph.
Or, sorry, we have this toggle graph
function that will take care of
a whole bunch of stuff that I
don't even want to talk about.
Because it's a little bit on
the hacked together side.
Just to show you how to use this stuff.
But then there's this
render graph function.
So far, we haven't seen any D3 or
React or anything.
But it's the render graph function
that brings in all the heavy stuff.
So, this is the stuff that we
want to load asynchronously.
And here, we have our JSX
that everybody loves so much.
How many people love JSX?
Yeah, I love JSX.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, now, it's great.
Okay, so, this is pretty much, this file,
if we could lazy load this file, then we
lazy load all of the other stuff as well.
Because nothing else in our entire
app depends on these things.
And so, this would be, another really
common case was, as if you have a router,
and you can lazy load the different parts,
or the components for each route.
And so, once the user gets there,
then load the stuff and show the user.
And so, this is, in this application,
this is the one file that we
wanna have is lazy loaded.
And if we look at this,
there's only one place where this file is
actually being used, and
it is in this graph/index.
So, what we need to do, I'm gonna give
you some sudo code, is ultimately,
we need to get rid of render graph.
But we still need to be
able to call render graph
in these three places
that it's being called.
But we're going to call it a little
bit differently, we're going to say,
let me just look at what I
called it in my notes, sorry.
Yeah, I call it loadAndRenderGraph.
And in here,
you're going to use the system API.
So, I'm gonna just show you down here.
The way that you lazy load code, and this
is this is actually ECMAScript standard.
So, there's a new system API in ES6
where you can say system.import.
And this is how you lazy load stuff,
as far as the standard is concerned,
and Webpack just understands the standard.
And so, we're gonna take
the thing you want imported, so
import what you wanna import, whatever
it is, if it's relative, whatever, and
what this does is return a promise, how
many people are familiar with promises?
ES6 promises.
Okay, so you can say var promise
equals that, or you can,
and then you can say do stuff
on promise.then whatever.
I just normally do it like this,
just right off of the promise itself.
And then you're gonna get your,
the thing, whatever you would
get it from a normal import,
that's what you're going to get here,
except it's going to behave more like
a common JS import, unfortunately.
I kind of wish that it didn't.
So, what I want you to do,
as you're debugging,
I would recommend that you console
about log(thing) right here, and
pull that up in your browser and
see what that looks like.
Pro tip, you're probably
going to want thing.default.
Because it's the default export,
I can explain that a little
bit later after the exercise.
But that's probably what you're
gonna want, that's just a hint.
And then you can use that thing to
do whatever you were doing before.
So, basically copy this and
put it down here.
Pretty much, so yeah, that's the exercise.
And then you would replace,
in here, you would replace all of the
render graphs with load and render graph.
Does that make sense?
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, let's see how
things go, I am available for questions.
>> Speaker 2: Did you cover
that export default question?.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so Henry is asking,
feel free to continue working
on the workshop, but right here,
Henry is asking why is this all the way up
here, shouldn't that be the last thing?
And that's a good point that
could be the last thing.
I'm leveraging a feature of JavaScript
called function declaration hoisting.
So, if you're familiar with hoisting of
variables, it's this, really, sometimes
confusing and frustrating feature,
which is actually solved by a let and
const, so I can say var foo, and
I can actually reference for you up here.
And that totally works,
and it's really kind of one of
the confusing parts of JavaScript.
There is one exception to this and
that functions.
So, actually, sorry, I didn't explain
that fully, so var foo equals bar.
So I can reference foo up here, but
it doesn't actually equal
bar until this line hits.
And what actually,
what JavaScript is doing under the hood,
it's hoisting all of your
declarations to the top, and
then making the assignments
where you make them.
So yeah, that's one of
the confusing parts of JavaScript.
With function declarations though,
not only is the declaration hoisted,
but also the definition, whatever you're
assigning it to, or what its value is.
And so, because of that,
I can export the function itself,
just like this above
where it's being used.
I like to do that because I
like to keep all my imports and
exports toward the top of the file,
so that when I open up the file,
I see everything that I need to see for
that file.
And I don't have to
search around the file.
One thing that you'll see in lots of
code bases is a bunch of named exports
throughout the file base right
next to functions and stuff.
What that results in is you having to
traverse the file to figure out what does
this module export?
Whereas, if you put everything, actually
a good example of this would be helpers.
Here I have my exports all
right up here at the top.
I could just as easily say export and
export and so on and
so forth, both are valid.
But only one of those can I see
everything right at the top.
So anyway, that's kind of a long story.
Either way,
you can do it at the top or bottom.
Just make try to make it consistent, and
only have one place, and I'll be happy.
Yeah, you had a question or comment?
>> Speaker 3: No, just stretched.
>> Kent C Dodds: I have one too.
[LAUGH] Cool, awesome.
And Martin is asking is
this Webpack too exclusive?
I only know require ensure.
Yes, very good point, so,
you could with Webpack one,
I don't believe that Webpack one
will ever get System.import,
so if you're on a Webpack one,
you can say require.
UPS require ensure.
And actually, I don't even remember this
API, cuz I never successfully used it.
But you can look up in the docs for
require ensure.
One drawback for using require ensure
is yes, it does basically the same
thing as System.import, but
there are actually two drawbacks.
One, require ensure is not ECMA standard,
and so,
it's never gonna end up in browsers.
It does have a standard, but
that standard doesn't have a way to handle
if there's a failure loading the module.
Whereas, with System.import, because
it uses promises, that actually just
comes naturally, because then you can just
say function onError and do stuff there.
Or if you wanna .catch, which would
actually catch any errors here.
So yeah, and so anybody get it working?
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay,
you can continue working on it.
>> Kent C Dodds: And actually, Tobias
said, I'm pretty sure he basically said,
if you use only one feature of Webpack,
make it code splitting.
He really likes code splitting a lot.
That's why he created it.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes, so Scott is asking,
so, we have a default export right here,
is it possible for us to also
have like named exports as well?
Yes, that's totally possible,
and this is kind of weird,
cuz I'm exporting toggleGraph as
default and as a named export.
Normally wouldn't do that, but yeah,
the way that you would use that,
if I wanted to import it,
I would say import toggle, whoops,
toggleGraph from render,
and I could, incidentally,
I could import the toggleGraph as well.
Although, that would totally fail because
of the same name, but I could do as foo,
and then that would work.
But this kind of contracted example.
So yeah, you can totally do default and
named exports.
Just like you would with common JS, but
most of the time you're going to do one or
the other, not both.
And the best use case for
named exports is a utility function,
our helpers, and pretty much everything
else is probably a default export.
Makes it easier that way.
>> Speaker 3: I do have a question.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Where does system come from?
>> Kent C Dodds: System will be a global
as soon as it's implemented in browsers.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, but currently-
>> Kent C Dodds: Currently it's Webpack.
So Webpack will transpile it.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, but
is it part of ES2016?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, 2015, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: It is?
>> Kent C Dodds: Technically, yeah, so,
this is kind of the funny
part of the whole ES6 thing.
So you probably heard that Safari
announced that they're totally 100%
ES6 compliant, which is really exciting,
except they can't load modules yet.
And so, yes, they do have
implementation for the syntax.
I'm not sure how valuable that is though,
because there's no specification for
loading modules.
And so, there is a specification for
System.import, but
no browser is capable of actually
doing anything with that,
because part of the question,
that's still kind of in the air is what
does the browser do when it sees this?
And how does it resolve that?
Because that's a relative path to
probably a file that doesn't
have an extension, right?
So, you would have to write it like this,
or you would have to be an absolute URL
to a specific file somewhere
that's on on your file system.
But if you wanted to do this
with no module, for example,
like react,
what does the browser do to that?
Well, like in node,
it is gonna do its resolve stuff and
find the known modules and stuff.
The browser can't do that,
because it doesn't see your file system.
And so, it's just gonna go
make a request for react, and
nothing's going to come back.
So, there's still a bit of a question
about whether how to handle these
module loading, and hopefully it,
in some way, resembles common JS, and that
somehow smart people figure out how to
do that, because it's really convenient.
>> Speaker 3: I'm not finding
it in the specification.
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, let's go.
>> Speaker 3: We can do this offline.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, yeah,
so, if you go to ES6 features,
there is a module loader specification.
Let me see if there's a link here, no.
System.import is six spec.
Yeah, so, this, actually,
this is a fantastic resource.
If you go to get.io/es6features,
all one word,
no capitals, that will take you to
a repo that has all the features in ES6.
I believe tail calls was actually
ripped out of the ES6 spec last minute.
But yeah, that this includes examples for
everything.
It's awesome.
But yeah there's, yeah,
we can look at this later.
But yeah,
it was originally in the specification.
I believe it's still in there.